{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13680\viewh14900\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 See For Yourself\
\
HOME Page\
\
The only way to truly learn something is by experience. I recall the typical story of the little kid starring at a hot stovetop, mesmerized by the red door of the heating element. When it turns off, the color disappears and the kid wants to touch it, but the mother quickly intervenes and tells the kid that it is still warm and very dangerous to touch. Yet, what does the kid do afterwards? He immediately touches the element, and as the heat is transferred to his hand, he swiftly removes his hand and releases a river of tears in regret. Every kid, at some point in his life, rejects parental authority in favour of direct experience to learn for himself. Rather than convincing the kid with logical statements, perhaps a wise mother should simply take the kid\'92s hand and force it onto the hot stovetop herself! This is precisely what I wish to achieve in this blog. Let me explain\'85\
\
There are many important societal issues today that have become very complex to analyze and understand (E.g. climate change, economics, politics, \'85). Most people build their opinion after reading things from authors with a certain authority in their field. This works well, but I found that it takes enormous amounts of careful reading to attain any real knowledge on any subject. I find the best way to understand something is to 
\i see for myself
\i0 . So, if I read that greenhouse gases are filling up the atmosphere due to human fossil fuel combustion or that the Canadian economy is in recession, I want to look at the data myself. I do this, not by lack of trust in authorities, but really just because it is the only way I can achieve any kind of deep understanding of a particular subject.\
\
I think it is crucially important for a democracy to have critical citizens that value 
\i seeing things for themselves
\i0 . So the goal of this website will be to take you along my explorations. I\'92ve just completed a Bachelor\'92s of Science in Earth System Science at McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada; therefore, I will start by exploring subjects relating to climate change, because I already have all the tools (scientific programming, knowledge of terminology, \'85) to look into that subject. I plan on eventually looking at statistics for Canada\'92s economy, demographics, politics, etc. All my posts will be written as python notebooks (now named Jupyter notebooks) and will be posted on my github, so if you find a mistake or are in disagreement with what I wrote, branch a version a propose a better analysis!\
\
Usually, seeing something for yourself is when you go \'91out in the field\'92 and do an experiment yourself, but nowadays issues and questions we can have are quite complex and it becomes quite impossible to see things for yourself in that way. For example, if you want to accurately measure atmospherics\'92 CO2 concentration yourself, you will need a gas spectrometer and a complicated calibration procedure. Instead, we can just read how others have made such measurements, and if we can\'92t find any mistakes, then we can use the data they provide.\
\
\
Section 1 - Earth System Science\
\
(show gif of geostationary satellite view of Earth)\
(show CM2.6 ocean currents)\
http://earth.nullschool.net/\
\
The Earth is in a constant state of flux. Matter has assembled itself into patterns we recognize and name. Water is flowing, people commuting, insects crawling. Ocean water evaporates, moves hundreds of kilometres, rises and precipitates. Heat is transported according to laws of thermodynamics. The equator receives more heat, on average, than the poles. This thermodynamic imbalance, in a fluid medium such as air and water, gives rise to oceanic and atmospheric currents that transport mass and energy around the Earth. It is as if the Earth was 
\i trying to deplete the energetic imbalance
\i0 . At the same time, plants are photosynthesizing, animals respiring and energy flows across vast food webs that are definitely more circular than linear.\
\
Earth System Science is the science that puts all these myriad processes together to make sense of patterns we observe on a global scale. The current paradigm uses systems thinking, that means making use of reservoirs and flows between these reservoirs. In this kind of science, understanding arises usually by modelling the interaction between reservoirs and testing results to actual observations made here on the real Earth. This kind of thinking can be used to understand, say, the carbon cycle: the atmosphere, ocean, biology and rocks (geosphere) can be viewed as reservoirs containing a certain amount of carbon, and photosynthesis, respiration, oceanic gas exchange, erosion and sedimentation are all important processes that can be approximately modelled to give us predictive power.\
\
	Theme 1 - Climate Change\
	The USA\'92s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has a nice dashboard of observed climate variables 	at https://www.climate.gov/. It would be cool if we could obtain similar plots by doing it ourselves. Let\'92s start by looking at 	climate change: it\'92s cause, mechanism and impacts.\
		Global warming and atmospheric CO2 rise\
		Sea ice retreat\
		Sea level rise\
		Ocean acidification\
		Oceanic heat/carbon uptake\
\
	Theme 2 - Carbon cycle\
		carbon cycle theory\
		deforestation. Is Brazil really slowing down its deforestation?\
\
	Theme 3 - Exploring Paleoclimate Archives\
		Earth\'92s full history for perspective\
		Quaternary: glacial-interglacial periods\
		Isotopes\
		Insolation, benthic d18O, CO2, \'85\
		Heinrich and D-O events\
		\'85\
\
	Theme 4 - Exploring Oceans (Sea For Yourself)\
		World Ocean Atlas\
		Currents and circulation\
		El Nino and current index state\
	\
Section 2 - Canadian Statistics\
\
https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/061.nsf/vwapj/KSBS-PSRPE_August-Aout2013_eng.pdf/$FILE/KSBS-PSRPE_August-Aout2013_eng.pdf\
\
http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/cansim/a29?lang=eng&groupid=401&p2=17#n405\
\
https://strategis.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/cis-sic.nsf/eng/h_00002.html\
\
http://www.tradingeconomics.com/canada/government-budget\
\
\
	Theme 2 - Canadian Demographics\
	\
	Theme 3- Canadian Energy Flows\
	\
	Theme 4 - Canadian Economic Flows\
	\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}